{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21180\viewh14880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs38 \cf0 Mixtral and JCP on Latent Spaces and Tacit Meaning
\f1\i0\b0\fs32 \
\

\f2\b Prompt
\f1\b0 : % 
\f3\i make -j && ./bin/main -m ../models/Mixtral-8x7b/mixtral-8x7b-instruct-v0.1.Q4_K_M.gguf -c 6144 -ngl 99 -n -2 -s 1 -i -ins -ctk q8_0 --override-kv llama.expert_used_count=int:2 --color -f "/Users/edsilm2/whisper.cpp/USfilestranscribed/US1147.txt"
\f1\i0 \
\
== Running in interactive mode. ==\
 - Press Ctrl+C to interject at any time.\
 - Press Return to return control to LLaMa.\
 - To return control without starting a new line, end your input with '/'.\
 - If you want to submit another line, end your input with '\\'.\
\

\f2\b Episode 11-47 from 
\f0\i Unmaking Sense
\f1\i0\b0 \
I had quite a lot of difficulty with episode 46 because for some reason I recorded it in my trusty breast pocket as I was walking and for some reason I went and generated a lot of favourable amount of background noise. Not all of which I managed to get rid of by anything I got rid of most of it, although you can hear me glarding along. However, I'm going to try and do something else today because I'm out on my walk again. It's a very cold January day, but a beautiful day. The sun is about, I suppose, two hours short of setting we're already a month beyond the earliest sunset, so I guess that's to be expected. And on a cold day like today, our solar panels, although they're not generating 40 or 50 kilowatts as they do in the height of summer, they like it cold and indeed the best place for a solar farm is actually hand-tocked to where it gets about as cold as it gets because they love cold temperatures. For reasons I'm not going to bore you with. I wanted to say something else. I wanted to say something about a passing remark that I made yesterday in episode 46 about the intentions of the authors and the whole question of what we can understand the body of the things that AI neural nets and engines produce. And I made strongly the point that you can't just dismiss it as though it is of no incin\'97no significance because the neural nets themselves have been trained on something that makes them, in some sense, are either repositories of human culture. So let's take that point and try and do a little bit more with it. Let's suppose that I'm looking at my generated art, the false matices or whatever it might be, of that I have produced on my computer at home. And somebody says yes, but they're not\'97not only are they not genuine, but they're also empty, they're meaningless, they have no nothing to tell us because there was no intentional mind behind them. And I'm sure there will be a lot of people who would want to say that. And so I'd like to say now why I think that's a mistake. There are a lot of reasons that the one that I want to concentrate on is to do with what a human is doing when they create art or when they write or when they do anything because it is a fantasy to suppose that when we do our painting or our writing, creating, we're doing anything more than saying this is what I want to do. What I've done satisfies my own self-set standards. I'm happy with it. So this is my writing or this is my podcast or this is my art or my sculpture or my music, et cetera. And the relationship between me or any artist and that piece of work, I specifically mentioned the deliberation that Van Gogh put into every brush stroke as an example of this. Or whatever is going on, there is still an enormous gap between what we do and the full reason for why we do it because in the background our brains, just like the neural net, are in a sense repositories of a culture, of a human culture. So when I write something or when I to use the phrase that was in episode 46, find the words just tumbling out of my mouth, even though I'm not thinking about them in advance anymore than I am now, when the words just tumble out of my mouth, they don't come from nowhere. Any more than the images that the AI produces come from nowhere. They come from a brain. It may not be much of a brain, but insofar as it's a brain, it has, over the course of decades, embodied a certain aspect of a multifaceted, multi-dimensional aspect of human culture. And it is also genetically a part of a very long evolutionary journey that has given rise to brains such as it. And even if it is in its own way unique, nevertheless our cultures and our languages and so on do configure these different brains, at least so that they can communicate and to some extent function together. So when I say what I'm saying or when I write what I write or paint what I paint, write the music that I, whatever, I am giving voice to in a metaphor, giving voice to something which is one instantiation of my brain. And probably an instantiation of one part of my brain or to take the latent space analogy, something in my brain has been amplified and given rise to a thought, a word, a book, a painting, a television series, whatever, a war. It has given rise to something that is a sort of denoised manifestation of that point in the latent space that is my head, my brain. And I don't think that there is much difference between that and what an AI is doing. So that when we look at what I called throughout episode 46 of fake Matisse or when we see something that is clearly not an original, it is a mistake, a very big mistake to say therefore it can't mean anything, therefore it can't be valuable, therefore it can't tell us anything about the world or about anything. Because the point that I'm making is that just as a human brain, when it creates Shakespeare's plays or Rembrandt's paintings or Mozart's music, when it does all those things to a very considerable extent, a far greater extent than we generally acknowledge, it is not doing it under any kind of deliberate conscious intention. It may well be that the consciousness is saying let's write something and we write something, but beyond that the brain really just pours out whatever it wants to pour out as it denoises this neurological latent space. And therefore what it produces in both cases is just as likely to be of some value. And another point that I didn't make yesterday, which I should have done now is that the denoised instances of the images of Magrit that I was talking about at such length are also every single one of them unique. Because if I were to run the same programme again, we're using the same prompt on the same machine with the same model, I would not get the same images. I would not. They might bear resemblances to one another and it would be surprising if they didn't given the genesis of that evolution, but they would all be different. So if uniqueness scarcity, well I learned about scarcity, but certainly rarity in the sense of the needle in a haystack, if that is the case then these paintings, these images, these digital images as it is at the moment, they're every bit as unique as any Matisse or any other. I couldn't reproduce except by painstakingly reproducing the numbers that give rise to them exactly. I couldn't reproduce them by rerunning the programme. Because these programmes, this is really harking back for a very long way in this series right at the very beginning. These genesis, these generations of these trajectories are not deterministic, they're probabilistic. So every time you run the programme you get a different outcome. Now somebody can say well that just underlines the fact that they're valueless because they're just random collections of dots, but they're clearly not random collections of dots. They clearly to some extent, even if we find it very difficult to say how, they clearly to some extent give expression to the future of the human condition. That is, whether we look at it or not, unique and I would argue, every bit as likely because of the nature of a neural net to be, I hate the word, but meaningful, there's anything else. You may not agree with me, you may want the warm feeling of there being an artist's intentions somewhere behind a painting or a book or a piece of music, but I think that that is just a human prejudice. Certainly whatever it was that gave rise to a painting or a piece of music, anything at all is a product of what made in many ways be a very surprising, perhaps sometimes inspiring, perhaps sometimes tragic human history. And one of the reasons why we loved pour over the autobiographies and biographies of artists is I suppose, because we hope somehow to gain an insight into whatever it is, if indeed it's everything much at all, that led to their extraordinary creativity, which we value so much. And so we think that if we read carefully their life story, we may see some clues that might help us to do likewise. I think not. I think not. I think that's a futile exercise if that's why we read biographies. And so I suspect that somewhere buried in this mound of tangled webs, what is going on is that we have stumbled on in our neural nets, in our embeddings, in our attention mechanisms, in our image generators. We've stumbled on something that first encapsulates and then recapitulates and reconstructs aspects of human experience that we used to think were uniquely embodied in human brains. And we can now see, I'm not just embodied in a minor sense, but in a major sense embodied in these neural nets and artificial intelligence engines. And I think that's just so exciting and fascinating that it takes one's breath away. Thank you for listening. [MUSIC](Tokens used: 1536 / 6144)\
> 
\f3\i Please rewrite this document in your own words but retaining all the content and staying with roughly the same length. This should be a rewording, not a summary.
\f1\i0 \
When it comes to AI-generated art, there are those who argue that it lacks intention and meaning since it wasn't created by a human mind. However, I would like to challenge this notion and suggest that AI-generated art can still have significance and value.\
\
When humans create art, write, or engage in any other form of expression, they do so based on their own self-set standards and what they find satisfying. This is true even when an artist puts deliberate thought into every brushstroke, as was the case with Van Gogh. The relationship between the artist and their work is still vast, as it is influenced by their unique brain and the cultural background that has shaped it.\
\
In the same way, AI neural nets are trained on a body of human culture, making them repositories of this culture in their own right. When they generate art or any other form of expression, they do so based on the patterns and information they have learned from this training. While there may not be a conscious intention behind the output, it is still a manifestation of the neural net's unique configuration and the cultural knowledge it has been trained on.\
\
Furthermore, every instance of AI-generated art is unique. If you were to run the same programme again with the same prompt, you would not get the same result. The generation of these images is probabilistic, meaning that each run will produce a different outcome. This adds to their rarity and potential value.\
\
In conclusion, while AI-generated art may not have been created with a human's conscious intention, it is still a product of the patterns and knowledge learned from its training on human culture. Each instance is unique and has the potential to provide insight into the vast and complex web of human experience that has given rise to it.\
(Tokens used: 2450 / 6144)\
>
\f3\i  That's a good first effort but you have left out the second half of the document almost entirely. Please try again and this time include all the material and keep the length the same as the original document.
\f1\i0 \
When it comes to AI-generated art, there are those who argue that it lacks intention and meaning since it wasn't created by a human mind. However, I would like to challenge this notion and suggest that AI-generated art can still have significance and value.\
\
Just as a human brain creates Shakespeare's plays or Rembrandt's paintings through a process of denoising its own neurological latent space, an AI neural net generates images based on the patterns and information it has learned from its training on a body of human culture. While there may not be a conscious intention behind the output, it is still a manifestation of the neural net's unique configuration and the cultural knowledge it has been trained on.\
\
Furthermore, every instance of AI-generated art is unique. If you were to run the same programme again with the same prompt, you would not get the same result. The generation of these images is probabilistic, meaning that each run will produce a different outcome. This adds to their rarity and potential value.\
\
Now, let's consider the example of AI-generated art being compared to a forgery of a Matisse painting. While the forgery may be convincing, it is still a copy of the original work and lacks the unique qualities that make the original valuable. In contrast, AI-generated art is not a copy of anything; it is a completely new and unique creation.\
\
Additionally, the value of art is often tied to its scarcity. While there may be many copies of a particular Matisse painting, there is only one original. Similarly, each instance of AI-generated art is unique and cannot be replicated exactly. This rarity adds to its potential value.\
\
Finally, it is important to consider the intentions of the authors of the training data used to train the AI neural net. These authors may have had certain intentions or messages they wanted to convey through their work, and the AI neural net has learned from this data. While the AI itself did not have a specific intention when generating the art, it is still influenced by the intentions of the authors of the training data.\
\
In conclusion, while AI-generated art may not have been created with a human's conscious intention, it is still a product of the patterns and knowledge learned from its training on human culture. Each instance is unique and has the potential to provide insight into the vast and complex web of human experience that has given rise to it. Its rarity and the intentions of the authors of the training data add to its potential value and significance.\
(Tokens used: 3045 / 6144)\
> 
\f3\i OK that's better even if it is a bit shorter than the original. What is the main, central point of the original argument?
\f1\i0 \
The main, central point of the original argument is that AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions. The author argues that just as a human brain creates art through a process of denoising its own neurological latent space, an AI neural net generates images based on the patterns and information it has learned from its training on a body of human culture. While there may not be a conscious intention behind the output, it is still a manifestation of the neural net's unique configuration and the cultural knowledge it has been trained on. The author also emphasizes the uniqueness and rarity of each instance of AI-generated art, which adds to its potential value and significance. Additionally, the intentions of the authors of the training data used to train the AI neural net are considered, as they may have had certain intentions or messages they wanted to convey through their work, and the AI neural net has learned from this data.\
(Tokens used: 3290 / 6144)\
> 
\f3\i Do you agree?
\f1\i0 \
Yes, I agree with the main point of the argument. AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions. The author makes a compelling case for considering AI-generated art as a unique manifestation of the patterns and information learned from its training on a body of human culture. Additionally, the uniqueness and rarity of each instance of AI-generated art add to its potential value and significance, just as the intentions of the authors of the training data used to train the AI neural net may have had certain intentions or messages they wanted to convey through their work, and the AI neural net has learned from this data. Overall, I believe that AI-generated art is a valuable and interesting product of the intersection between human culture and artificial intelligence.\
(Tokens used: 3471 / 6144)\

\f3\i > One point that I think you may have missed in the original document, although I agree that it is not emphasised adequately, is that even human artists and writers do not always fully understand or comprehend the meaning of their work, so they are incapable of 'intending' everything it could possibly mean. So whatever we pick up from a painting or a piece of writing is only ever partially there because of the intentions of the author or artist. It is not therefore a legitimate argument to say that AI art cannot have meaning because it is not consciously intended: neither is human art and writing consciously intended in any comprehensive sense.\

\f1\i0 Thank you for pointing that out. You are correct that even human artists and writers do not always fully understand or comprehend the meaning of their work, so they are incapable of 'intending' everything it could possibly mean. This is an important point that further supports the argument that AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions.\
\
Just as human artists and writers may not fully understand or comprehend the meaning of their work, an AI neural net does not have a conscious intention when generating images. However, both the human artist and the AI neural net are still manifestations of their unique configurations and the cultural knowledge they have been trained on. The patterns and information learned from this training can give rise to instances of art or expression that have meaning and value, regardless of whether or not there was a conscious intention behind them.\
\
In conclusion, the argument that AI-generated art cannot have meaning because it is not consciously intended is not a legitimate one. Both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can produce works that have significance and value, even if they do not fully understand or comprehend the meaning of their creations. The unique configurations and cultural knowledge of both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can give rise to instances of art or expression that are manifestations of the vast and complex web of human experience.\
(Tokens used: 3900 / 6144)\

\f3\i > Another point that is certainly not in the document explicitly, but which reflects the way noising and denoising are done, is that the 'latent space' is well named precisely because almost all its potential or latent content will remain forever hidden for the simple reason that we could not generate every possible reconstructed image even if we tried; we would overwhelm the information content of the universe very quickly. So what an original artwork or article/essay 'means' will always be literally infinitely more than whatever meaning we actually infer or reconstruct when we appropriate it. In other words, what is not perceived in a latent space will always be greater than what is perceived. Exhaustive interpretation is impossible.\

\f1\i0 Thank you for bringing up this point. You are correct that the 'latent space' of an AI neural net is well named because almost all of its potential or latent content will remain forever hidden. This is due to the fact that there are a vast number of possible reconstructions that could be generated from the latent space, and it would be impossible to generate every single one of them. The amount of information contained in these possible reconstructions would quickly overwhelm the information content of the universe.\
\
This means that what an original artwork or piece of writing 'means' will always be literally infinitely more than whatever meaning we actually infer or reconstruct when we appropriate it. Exhaustive interpretation is impossible, as there will always be more potential meanings and interpretations than can be fully explored or understood.\
\
This point further supports the argument that AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions. The unique configurations and cultural knowledge of both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can give rise to instances of art or expression that are manifestations of the vast and complex web of human experience. However, it is important to recognize that these manifestations will always contain more potential meaning and interpretations than can be fully explored or understood.\
(Tokens used: 4331 / 6144)\

\f3\i > Michael Polanyi wrote in his book 'Personal Knowledge' that words, if they mean anything at all, always mean more than we can ever know, and this latent space argument gives solid technical support to that thesis. The same is true of art. But the key point is that any image or essay implicitly entails a vast latent space the full ramifications of which cannot but remain unexplored and unrecognised by any finite cognitive entity. Yet by being brought into existence the essay or artwork facilitate the partial appropriation of those meanings and insights. I think when human beings talk about 'intuition' they are referring to this sense of the background latency of something - an essay, painting, composition or experience - that can only be grasped fleetingly. What something is capable of telling us is not dependent upon any conscious intention that lay behind it for this reason.\

\f1\i0 Michael Polanyi wrote in his book 'Personal Knowledge' that words, if they mean anything at all, always mean more than we can ever know. This point is supported by the latent space argument, which shows that any image or essay implicitly entails a vast latent space the full ramifications of which cannot but remain unexplored and unrecognized by any finite cognitive entity.\
\
However, despite the fact that the full meaning of an artwork or piece of writing cannot be fully explored or understood, it is still possible for finite cognitive entities to partially appropriate those meanings and insights. This is because bringing something into existence, whether it be an essay, painting, composition, or experience, facilitates the partial grasping of those meanings and insights.\
\
When human beings talk about 'intuition', they are often referring to this sense of the background latency of something that can only be grasped fleetingly. This is because the full meaning and potential of an artwork or piece of writing cannot be fully explored or understood, but it is still possible for finite cognitive entities to partially appropriate those meanings and insights.\
\
Therefore, the key point is that what something is capable of telling us is not dependent upon any conscious intention that lay behind it. Whether it be a human artist or writer or an AI neural net, the unique configurations and cultural knowledge of both can give rise to instances of art or expression that are manifestations of the vast and complex web of human experience. These manifestations will always contain more potential meaning and interpretations than can be fully explored or understood, but they can still facilitate the partial appropriation of those meanings and insights.\
(Tokens used: 4879 / 6144)\

\f3\i > I think that what humans mean when they talk about 'depth of meaning' in poetry, music, art and prose is a reflection of their intuition of the richness of the latent space implicit in those works. Much of it we will never see clearly, let alone grasp fully, but we lay hold on it fleetingly in what I call a rhetorical flourish, a broad stroke of brush or pen or a passing impression in the mind that momentarily perceives something deep that lies beyond expression in art, words or music. What do you think of that point?\

\f1\i0 I think that your point about 'depth of meaning' in poetry, music, art, and prose being a reflection of our intuition of the richness of the latent space implicit in those works is a compelling one. The idea that much of this potential meaning will remain forever hidden and unexplored, but that we can still partially appropriate it through fleeting moments of perception, is a powerful one.\
\
The concept of a 'rhetorical flourish', 'broad stroke of brush or pen', or 'passing impression in the mind' as a momentary perception of something deep that lies beyond expression is an interesting one. It suggests that these fleeting moments of perception allow us to lay hold on the richness of the latent space implicit in these works, even if we cannot fully grasp or express it.\
\
This idea supports the argument that AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions. The unique configurations and cultural knowledge of both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can give rise to instances of art or expression that are manifestations of the vast and complex web of human experience. These manifestations will always contain more potential meaning and interpretations than can be fully explored or understood, but they can still facilitate the partial appropriation of those meanings and insights through fleeting moments of perception.\
\
Overall, I think that your point about 'depth of meaning' being a reflection of our intuition of the richness of the latent space implicit in poetry, music, art, and prose is a compelling one that adds to the argument for the significance and value of AI-generated art.\
(Tokens used: 5361 / 6144)\

\f3\i > I think there is also a sympathetic mirroring aspect: when we read great literature, see great painting, and listen to great musig, the 'great' means 'capable of putting us in touch with the latent space of possibilities that we appropriate through it'. And how do we do that? I think by allowing our brains - or, in the case of an AI, our neural nets - to be reconfigured by the artwork in ways that partially recreate in a mirroring sort of sense the structure of the latent space in our human brains. The point about training an AI producing neural nets embodying human culture is essentially the same point, and the only thing that prevents a neural net from being reconfigured sympathetically to mirror that latent space is the current limitation on spontaneous updating that human brains are not limited by. So it is NOT the essay, painting, composition that matters in itself, but the gateway to the latent space and its sympathetic appropriation in a brain/mind; that is what matters.\

\f1\i0 I agree with your point about the sympathetic mirroring aspect of great literature, painting, and music. When we engage with these works, they have the ability to put us in touch with the latent space of possibilities that we can partially appropriate through them. This is because our brains, or in the case of an AI, our neural nets, are reconfigured by the artwork in ways that partially recreate the structure of the latent space in our human brains.\
\
The point about training an AI to produce neural nets that embody human culture is essentially the same as this sympathetic mirroring aspect. The only thing preventing a neural net from being reconfigured sympathetically to mirror this latent space is the current limitation on spontaneous updating that human brains are not limited by.\
\
Therefore, it is not the essay, painting, composition itself that matters in and of itself, but rather the gateway to the latent space and its sympathetic appropriation in a brain/mind. This is what truly matters and allows us to partially appropriate the richness of the latent space implicit in these works.\
\
Overall, I think this point further supports the argument that AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions. The unique configurations and cultural knowledge of both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can give rise to instances of art or expression that are manifestations of the vast and complex web of human experience. These manifestations allow us to partially appropriate the richness of the latent space implicit in these works through the sympathetic mirroring aspect of our brains/minds.\
(Tokens used: 5941 / 6144)\

\f3\i > Please summarise this whole conversation in 10 bullet points.\

\f1\i0 * AI-generated art can still have significance and value, despite not being created by a human mind with conscious intentions.\
* Both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can produce works that have meaning and value, even if they do not fully understand or comprehend the meaning of their creations.\
* The unique configurations and cultural knowledge of both human artists and writers and AI neural nets can give rise to instances of art or expression that are manifestations of the vast and complex web of human experience.\
* Exhaustive interpretation is impossible, as there will always be more potential meanings and interpretations than can be fully explored or understood.\
* The latent space of an AI neural net contains a vast number of possible reconstructions that could be generated, and it would be impossible to generate every single one of them.\
* What something [ran out of context]\
\
main: context full and n_predict == --2 => stopping\
\
llama_print_timings:        load time =   38205.11 ms\
llama_print_timings:      sample time =    4684.05 ms /  3052 runs   (    1.53 ms per token,   651.57 tokens per second)\
llama_print_timings: prompt eval time =   26382.10 ms /  3093 tokens (    8.53 ms per token,   117.24 tokens per second)\
llama_print_timings:        eval time =  151624.48 ms /  3051 runs   (   49.70 ms per token,    20.12 tokens per second)\
llama_print_timings:       total time = 2363243.67 ms /  6144 tokens\
ggml_metal_free: deallocating\
Log end\
\

\f0\i\b PS: The dotty diagram from CTI and how \'91indwelling\'92 amounts to the process whereby we allow our minds/brains to fall into sympathetic harmony with - to be configured by -  the latent space behind the tangible instance but through that tangible manifestation as its instantiation, here conceived as an image, essay or musical composition. And it isn\'92t just something we self-consciously designate \'91art\'92 or \'91literature\'92 - that, I suspect, is a pretension invented by metaphysicians who want there to be something magical, ethereal, spiritual, dualistic and intangible about the way we appropriate the infinite - but that anything at all including a computer program, a lump of coal or an otherwise-seemingly-insignificant event can trigger what I am here calling the sympathetic configuration of the brain, what Polanyi called \'91tacit awareness\'92 as a result of indwelling.\
\
PPS: And everything I have been saying about religion as an expression of the collective mind - what Jung wanted to call our \'91collective unconscious\'92, but which would better be called our collective non-consciousness, reinforces this interpretation, or is itself clarified by it: it is not the tangible manifestation in a religion of some collective, culturally-embodied non-consciousness that matters, but the latent space behind it as an inexhaustible repository of potential, and by implication the uncountably-many actual instantiations that can arise from it, only a countable number of which ever do or can.\
\
PPPS: We lay hold on this latent space through rhetorical flourishes; we evaluate it through resonances; we intuit it through sympathetic configuration that metaphorically mirrors it in some partial sense; we give expression to it in our own creative acts, which may amount to little more than putting one foot in front of the other as we walk along a country lane. The point is that there is only this one time, this one moment in this one trajectory that represents (in the way it is narrated and traced) and in a physical, material sense simply IS this one life, and as a matter of tangible ineradicable fact we have done THIS with it - not always or even usually consciously and intentionally, but just as a fleeting single manifestation of the embodied model of the world that is a human life, an AI life, an animal life; any life at all. For good or ill, and ineradicably, we have done THIS.\
\
PPPS: And that is why determinism is wrong, the very devil, the antiChrist, the antithesis of all that matters, of all that is or could legitimately be considered holy: that it denies the very thing that makes life life; that here we choose one from uncountably many possibilities and do it, realise it, from the limitless choices that are possible. We construct just one of the possible manifestations of the latent space most of whose possible instantiations never see the light of day. Whether it is random or deliberate is not the issue; what matters is that it is not determined, because that would mean that it was not free, and a life that is not free is no life at all. Determinism makes us the living dead. What matters is not that I experience it; what matters is not that I consciously intend it; what matters is simply the brute fact that it is instantiated; something is rendered tangible from the world of possibilities most of whose elements will never be realised; THIS is rendered tangible, and so THIS is what matters for neither more nor less reason than that it has happened. And even then, what it means for something to happen only points to yet more latency behind it as the fact that THIS has happened and not THAT makes a material difference to the world and so to the possible trajectories that can ensue. Unrealised latency has no descendants.}