{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 User input: Write a story about two dogs: Zachary is a six-year-old border collie who is very smart but easily frightened; Hugo is a three-year-old German Shepherd who has lived as Zachary's brother since he was born. They like one another very much.\
\
Output: 3\
  [INST] Write a story about two dogs: Zachary is a six-year-old border collie who is very smart but easily frightened; Hugo is a three-year-old German Shepherd who has lived as Zachary's brother since he was born. They like one another very much. [/INST]  Once upon a time, in a small town nestled in the rolling hills of the countryside, there lived two beloved canine companions named Zachary and Hugo.\
\
Zachary was a six-year-old Border Collie with a sleek black and white coat and sharp, intelligent eyes. He was known far and wide for his quick wit and problem-solving abilities, but he had a secret: beneath his clever exterior, Zachary was easily frightened. A sudden noise or an unexpected touch would send him scurrying for cover, tail tucked between his legs.\
\
Hugo, on the other hand, was a three-year-old German Shepherd with a proud bearing and a deep chestnut coat. He was strong and confident, always ready to protect and defend those he loved. Hugo had lived as Zachary's brother since the day he was born, and the two dogs were inseparable.\
\
Despite their differences, Zachary and Hugo shared a deep bond of friendship and love. They spent their days exploring the hills and fields around their home, playing games and chasing after one another until they collapsed in a heap of exhausted fur.\
\
One day, as they were out on one of their adventures, Zachary's fear got the better of him. They had come across a stream that was usually shallow and easy to cross, but today it was swollen with rainwater and flowing fast.\
\
Zachary hesitated on the bank, his heart racing as he watched the water rush by. He knew he couldn't swim across - he was far too small and the current was much too strong. But he also knew that Hugo would never leave him behind.\
\
Hugo sensed Zachary's fear and bounded back to his side, nuzzling him gently with his snout. "It's okay, little brother," he said in a soothing voice. "I'll carry you across."\
\
Zachary looked up at Hugo, his eyes wide with gratitude. He knew that Hugo was strong enough to carry him, but he still felt a twinge of fear as he allowed himself to be lifted off the ground and into Hugo's strong jaws.\
\
Hugo waded into the water, fighting against the current as he made his way to the other side. Zachary clung tightly to him, his heart pounding with every step. But soon they were on solid ground once again, and Zachary let out a sigh of relief.\
\
From that day forward, Zachary knew that he could always count on Hugo to be there for him, no matter what. And Hugo, in turn, knew that he had a brave and loving brother by his side. Together, they faced whatever challenges came their way, always ready to support and protect one another. And so, they lived happily ever after, two dogs bound together by love and friendship.}